problem statement introduction:

The United Nations SDG calls for the availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all, to ensure this the reformation of agricultural water usage is necessary in the coming future. Given that 70% of the freshwater reserves are utilised for irrigation 
alone, managing the efficient use of water is crucial to sustaining water as a reliable resource for all.  As of 2019, 52% of all irrigation has been listed as unsustainable due to the continual depletion of basins, aquifers and lakes. These poor practices are causing ongoing issues of water scarcity in a multitude of regions particularly affecting, Xingjiang China (which will be the primary place of focus for this project).
 
The geography of this province has proven to be a challenging impediment in terms
of water management. Making up around 1/6 of the land mass of China, it however only contains 4% of the nation's freshwater reserve. This, combined with the fact that wheat and cotton-based agriculture is the most dominant industry of Xinjiang means that 90% of water usage is dedicated towards irrigation. The result of this has caused stress towards the sustainability of local the Tabin and Hay basins. With issue of water scarcity causing many geo-socio-political impacts; affecting many stakeholders, including but not limited to the following:

- The Chinese federal government: specifically their budget reconsiderations to execute the South-North Water project to create a viable water source for the region 
- Industrial agriculturalists: will not have enough water to support the growing wheat and cotton industry, potentially facilitating their own collapse 
- Participants in the global cotton market: With Xinjiang being one of the largest exports of cotton, industries that are involved with this trade may face supply issues leading to product inflation 
- The urban residents of Xinjiang will feel economic stagnation if the main industry of the region cannot be supported; further coupled with humans' primal need for water, the population of Xingjiang's demands for this resource will not be met as soon as 30 years.

Thus to sustain both industrial agriculturism and the growing demands of urbanisation, the water irrigation model of Xinjiang would have to be improved to prioritise efficiency. 


To address these challenges I propose the introduction of a new irrigation method that prioritises the mitigation of water consumption.
Taking the form of an underground irrigation, the principal behind the innovation is to decrease water expenditure through the prevention of water loss through
run off and evaporation.
.

